[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Yeah, long time ago.
It's one of the
things that I was
blessed to have mortality
motivation at a young age.
A 19-year-old kid coming
out of high school in love
with my high school
sweetheart, we break up
our first semester in
college, and my whole identity
was tied up into her.
And so that
relationship fell apart.
I fell apart.
And by the end of my freshman
year in college, I'm suicidal.
And I have just no hope.
I have that moment where
I'm questioning life.
And then it teeters
on the other side
of planning to take my life.
And then, fortunately,
marketing changed
my life, which is kind of a
funny thing to think about now,
but I was depressed,
and I was laying in bed,
and I read the school newspaper.
And there was this
big full page ad.
And it had this white
sandy beach, this turquoise
blue ocean, perfect wisp
of sky, and this palm tree.
And across the top.
it said "escape."
And when you're miserable,
when you're upset,
you want to escape.
You want to run.
You want to hide.
You want to avoid.
And that's what I did.
But I saw this.
It said "escape-- summertime
work in the Dominican
Republic-- students needed."
And I was like, yeah.
And I didn't know where
the Dominican Republic was,
but I knew she wasn't there.
So I take the job,
go down there.
I become a glorified
tour guide, basically,
working for an
entrepreneur down there.
And then one night, returning
from a client's house
about midnight, my friend
Kevin and I hopped in the car,
and we started barreling home.
And they just paved this
new road, so a long stretch,
brand new paved road.
We're flying 85 miles
an hour down the road.
And that was that was where
it began for me, that road.
We're going 85 miles
an hour down this road.
All the windows are down.
That magical Caribbean air
is coming into the car.
I felt something stirring.
Something was going on.
I didn't know what
it was at the time.
Tom Cochrane's
"Life is a Highway"
is playing on the radio as we're
barreling down this highway.
And then we came upon a corner
that in the United States
would have had one of those
U-turn-shaped arrow signs,
watch out, sharp corner
ahead, 15 miles an hour.
Didn't have a sign, so
we rounded that corner
going 85 miles an hour.
And that was my turning point
because in the next couple
moments, which
seemed slow motion,
I learned that at
the end of our life,
we basically evaluate our life.
When you're sliding
into death's doorway,
you think about your life.
And you ask yourself questions
to evaluate whether or not
you were happy with your life.
And I don't know
if at the time it
was a spiritual thing, a
cognitive thing, or just
an emotional sense,
but when you're
crashing into death's doorway,
the first question you ask is,
did I live?
Did I live vibrantly and
passionately and joyously?
Did I live my life?
Was I alive and
vibrant and here?
And you want to
know that question.
The car, as it
slid off the road,
we hit a little
retainer wall that
used to be an irrigation ditch.
And we popped up in the air.
I smacked my head on the
door, got knocked out.
But I started seeing
all these images
of these times in my life when
I was around my people I loved--
family, friends,
moments-- not omniscient,
but just moments
like I viewed it.
There was my sister
there, and my mom there,
and my friends there.
And you see these
images of the people you
love at the end of your life.
And it makes you
ask, did I love?
Did I love openly and
honestly and completely?
Or did I shut down because
one time I got hurt,
which is what happened for me.
And through that breakup,
my high school sweetheart,
and I shut my heart down, and
I didn't feel life anymore.
I didn't feel myself.
I didn't sense that broader
range of emotions we all want.
The car hit the ground,
rolled several times.
By the time I came to,
Kevin was screaming
at the top of his lungs.
"Brendon, get out of the car!
Get out of the car!
Get out of the car!"
And I looked over, and he had
this huge chunk of his head
was open and there was
blood all over him.
And he's screaming.
His eyes are wild.
"Get out of the car!
Get out of the car!
Get out of the
And I look at him,
and I'm terrified.
And he crawls
outside the window.
And I go to get outside my
window, but it's smashed.
The whole car is
smashed on top of me.
And all I have is this
little windshield,
what used to be the windshield
in front of me, this opening.
And I crawl through
this windshield.
And I pull myself up.
And I stand up on this
crumpled hood of this car.
And I look down, and there's
blood all over my body.
And Kevin's screaming
off to the side.
This terror is going
down through my body,
realizing that I'm in
trouble because I can see
all this blood on my body now.
And this wooziness came
over, and I thought
I was going to pass out.
And I remember looking
down at the hood
and seeing all my blood come
off of my body on the hood
of this car, and feeling
like I was going to pass out,
and looking down, just
thinking, did I even matter?
Was there a purpose to this?
Was there a reason I'd
been through all this?
And we wonder that.
And I didn't like the
answer to that question.
I was a 19-year-old kid.
I've never looked beyond myself.
I never thought
about the future.
You don't talk about legacy
when you're 19 unless you're
around some great people.
And I just hadn't been around
that type of folks before.
And so I learned through
this car accident
that that's what we ask
at the end of our lives.
We're going to
evaluate our lives,
and we're going to ask these
three specific questions.
We're going to say, did I live?
Did I love?
And did I matter?
And this is 20 years ago for me.
And so every night, I go to bed.
I say, did I live today?
Did I love today?
Did I matter today?
And it's not like every
night the answer is yes,
but most of the nights it is.
And the nights when
it's yes on all of them,
I sleep the best
because I'm fulfilled.
And I'm always telling
people, I say, you know what?
Even if you don't resonate
with those questions,
they're not exactly yours,
figure out your questions.
Figure out, at the
end of my life,
how would I evaluate my life?
What questions would I
ask to know whether or not
I lived a good life?
Because if you find out
what those questions are--
just make them up.
Decide, OK, I might
ask, am I a good mom?
I might ask, did I
follow my passion?
I might ask, did I honor
the gifts that God gave me?
Find out what questions
you're going to ask.
And once you know what
those questions are,
then you can live
each day intentionally
so you're happy with
the answers at the end.
Well, asking questions
about your life
gives you the one thing
we all need more--
intention and presence.
That's it.
If you're not asking questions
about where you want to be
or what you want
experience in life,
it's just like you
can wake up each day
and just go through
the motions each day,
but if you woke
up and said, what
emotions do I want to experience
today, now you're able to say,
oh, I want to choose
to experience joy.
I want to choose
to experience love.
I want to choose to experience
fun and passion and excitement
and thrill.
But you can't do
that if you just
go through the mundane of life.
Life will just serve
you up the mundane.
And you'll start getting
bored with your life.
You'll start feeling
very comfortable.
And you'll start saying, well,
why am I not experiencing
more of that magic
that I know is in life?
It's because you're
waiting for it.
I always tell people
there's only two things that
change your life.
Either, A, something new
comes into your life,
and that shifts you.
That shakes you.
That makes you a
different person.
Or, B, something new
comes from within.
And intention,
knowing what we want
to experience during the day,
that gives the power of choice.
It's like Victor
Frankl taught us.
The last of human
freedoms is the ability
to choose one's own attitude.
It's choice.
And from the ability to
focus on a question to say,
OK, did I live today,
that gives you intention.
Am I going to live today?
Am I really going to live?
Because you work with
people like I who've
been at the end of their life--
they're in the last days,
weeks, months of their life,
last moments of their life--
I've been with hundreds of them.
And they all say the same thing.
They say, I want today.
I want to feel today.
They want to experience the day.
It's not like, I
guess I'll see what
they're going to serve me here.
And I wonder what's
in the newspaper.
They're like, I want
to call someone I love.
Could you get my brother?
Could I talk to this person?
Could you give me some paper?
I want to write
some things down.
It's because
they're intentional.
They have what I call
mortality motivation.
They're aware of this
incredible blessing of breath
that we have in the moment.
They're aware that the
next moment might not come.
And because they
have that awareness,
a new intention comes for
how to be and how to feel
and how to experience
and how to relate.
I tell people all the time,
it's like, if you're not aware
that that might be
gone, what's going
to motivate you to bring
something magic to it?
Nothing.
And that's why
mortality motivation
gives us choice, gives
us intention, gives us
those questions.
So it's the simplest
process ever.
Start your day and ask, what
do I want experience today?
When I take a shower in the
morning, I have this practice.
I ask myself three questions
every single morning
in the shower.
I ask, first and
foremost, I say,
what today is going
to be incredible?
What can I get excited about
or have enthusiasm about today?
Number two, what
might trip me up?
What might throw me off my
game, cause stress, bother me?
Because if I can
anticipate it, then
I can ready myself
for it and say, well,
how can my highest self
meet that challenge?
And then three, what can I do
to surprise somebody today?
And I'm a jokester, so I like
to pull a prank on somebody.
Or I like to send a nice
gift card or surprise
somebody with a call or
random text or random video.
Those are my three things.
And starting in those
questions each day--
how can experience enthusiasm or
look forward to something, how
can I deal with something that's
going to make me struggle,
and how can I
surprise somebody--
I've just primed my whole
day for the emotions
I want to experience, not the
ones that randomness or trouble
is going to give me.
I've told my car accident
story around the world.
And people come up to
me all the time and say,
I had an accident.
And it was worse than yours.
But I didn't change.
Why?
And I say, I don't know if
you'll like that answer.
And they say, what do you mean?
I say, because you didn't
demand it of yourself.
And people don't
like that answer.
But, see, meaning just
doesn't happen to us.
It can happen unconsciously.
Like, well, I felt something
from that car accident.
No big deal.
But if you don't sit down
and say, you know what?
I need to associate
a meaning with this.
I need to demand that thing
meant something to me.
People don't like
the word "demand,"
but high performers
use it all the time.
We have external demands,
like competition.
And we have internal demands,
like standards, goals, values,
morality that
makes us do things.
Well, you're not going to draw
any meaning from any given
situation in your
life until you say,
what is the meaning I
want to give to that,
consciously as an adult--
not as a child, when that
thing happened to me; not
as the victim when
I didn't feel power;
but now, removed
from the situation.
I didn't gain a lot of
meaning from my car accident
exactly that night or exactly
those next couple of days.
It was stirring in there.
But I had to go, man,
that shook me up.
What was that about?
What did that mean to me?
What do I want that to mean?
And then I demanded
myself, sit and write.
Literally, I sat down,
and I recorded, like,
what do I feel about that?
What happened?
What were the emotions
going through?
And who do I want to
be because of that?
I think the most
important thing is,
when someone has a traumatic
incident, a difficulty,
a situation they did not
want, life challenges
and punches them in the face
and it puts them down, it's
to get back up and
say, well, who do I
want to be because of that?
How do I want to treat other
people because of that?
It's setting an intention
because that thing?
It can have meaning
or not meaning.
I just say, you know what?
Life is so short, try and attach
meaning to lots of things.
You walk down the street, and
you see the beautiful flowers.
Give it a little meaning.
Say, gosh, isn't
this so blessing
that this sidewalk has
some flowers on it?
As simple as that is,
but people don't even
do that in their own marriages.
They don't do that
their own teams.
They don't do
their own business.
They're kind of going through
as fast as they possibly can.
I would say it's like it's like
when you watch somebody eat,
especially here in
the United States,
people are eating like
beasts on the run.
There's no intention
to the meal.
They're just like going.
It's like something to scarf
down to go onto the next thing.
They're not giving
that meal the moment.
Well, I think every
moment of the day,
every minute is a meal.
We can choose to savor it.
We can choose to experience
it, see it, and sense
our environment.
But people aren't doing
that because they're
on to the next thing.
And so unfortunately
what happens
after a traumatic incident
happens to somebody,
they're just on
to the next thing.
And then I meet them.
And they say, Brendon, I
had a car accident, too.
It didn't mean anything to me.
And I had more dramatic
experience than you did.
And I say, yeah, you
didn't demand it.
You didn't sit down and say,
what did that mean to me?
And how do I want to change?
I did that.
I wrote about it.
I journaled about it.
And then I said,
every night I'm going
to ask myself questions
to evaluate whether or not
I did that.
And I think that's the secret.
The secret ultimately
is having discipline.
It's not a popular world,
but to go to the next level,
you need discipline.
And you can't avoid it.
Everyone wants to avoid it.
It's like, you're
going to go on a diet?
If you're really going to make
it happen, you need discipline.
But the same thing-- you
want to think better?
You need discipline.
You want to have
a better morning?
You need discipline.
You want to love better?
In discipline, we find freedom.
In discipline, we find our
stairway to the next level.
And it's hard.
But if you don't do
something every day,
it's hard to master it.
Some people want to
have better thoughts.
People want better
relationships.
But often they don't give
into that thing each day.
I don't mean give
in, I mean give into,
to be generous into something.
And if you want to
develop a skill,
you want change a relationship,
you want to build a career,
it has to be daily of you giving
and being generous into it--
daily.
So I was generous
into my intentions.
I focused on them every day.
And it's that daily focus
that shifted it for me.
And I think that's why
a lot of people, they
don't get that shift.
They didn't make
something a daily focus.
What holds people back
is first and foremost
the desire for comfort and ease.
That's it.
They say, well, I
want to be great,
but I'm really comfortable here.
I understand this.
I'm not scared every day.
Or I just I don't want to
go through that struggle.
I think the most important
thing in reaching the next level
in our life is to honor
the struggle, to say, oh,
you know what?
To ratchet up, to go to that
next level of potential,
I need to honor that process.
That process is going
to bring hardship.
It's going to bring frustration.
It's going to bring the unknown.
It's going to bring
people making fun of you.
And instead of saying, oh,
I'm so scared, honor it.
Go, that's part of the process.
It's like if you want to change
your life and get healthier,
you want to go to
the gym, people go,
oh, it's going to be so hard.
I'm going to have
to learn a new diet.
to lift weights.
And I go, honor that.
That journey of hardship,
that journey of struggle
opens the door to
the next level.
We should appreciate
that and honor that.
So I think first and
foremost the reason people
don't attain their potential is
they're fearful of the hardship
that that change would bring.
And I say look forward
to it, anticipate it,
and say that's going to make
me smarter, wiser, better,
more kind, more
capable, more confident
to go through the muck.
I work with a lot
of Green Berets
and very elite military levels.
And they have this great saying.
They say you have
to embrace the suck.
You have to know, this is
going to suck a little bit.
All right.
Let's go at it, guys.
We know it's going to suck.
Just knowing that and allowing
that is really important.
And then once you understand
that people don't achieve
their potential because
they don't honor struggle,
then it's easy.
It's bad thinking, bad
habits, bad environment.
So simple to break it down.
Like, meet somebody
who's really struggling,
it's one of those three or
a combination those three.
It's ruining them.
They're bad thinking.
They're constantly in
a scarcity mindset.
They're constantly
in a blaming mindset
to either others or
their own self-hatred.
It's bad habits where they
just have no routines.
Their habits are
all unconscious.
They don't have deliberate
high performance practices,
deliberate habits where--
a deliberate habit means you
can't automatically do it.
It's like the next
level of the habit
where you have to force
yourself to do it.
It gets a little
easier, but you always
have to remind
yourself to do it.
Or it's a bad environment.
They have a negative spouse.
They have people around
them making fun of them.
They have trolls online.
And they let that
negativity win the day.
It's very easy for people
to let the negative drown
out their ambition.
And now this person who
has a lot of potential,
a lot of greatness, who
could go to this next level,
they don't because they're
listening to the wrong voices.
They're not listening to
that inside restlessness,
that inside thing that
says, come on, man.
That inside thing says
we gotta change this.
That inside thing that
is scary sometimes
because it says we
gotta blow all this up
because it's wrong for us.
Sometimes it feels irresponsible
to listen to that voice
and very responsible listen
to the person that says,
now be careful.
But if you're always
listening to that person
or that side of you, then what
ends up winning is certainty.
And people who need
a lot of certainty,
and that's their thing, it's
hard for them to rattle past
their comfort zone because
past the comfort zone is a lot
of unknown, is a lot of fears,
a lot of a future that you just
cannot possibly anticipate.
But that's the only place
where greatness lies.
That's the only place
because greatness is always
going to be a future tense.
Right now, we can feel good,
but our ultimate greatness, it's
not right now.
Right now is beauty.
Right now is blessing.
Right now is meaning.
It's the moment.
Greatness is an ultimate legacy.
Until we're at that death bed or
that final moment of cognition
before we blink out and
we go to the next level,
until we're right there,
greatness isn't ours.
It's something we
have to strive for.
It's just like morality
is never ultimately ours.
We're always
striving towards it.
Greatness is that way, too.
And so for those who are just--
they're stuck right here,
they've got to evaluate,
what are my thoughts?
What are my habits?
And have I set up an
environment to win?
And if none of these are
consciously done, they cannot--
they cannot-- obtain
their full potential.
I can tell if
somebody is trapped
in conformity by looking
at their first 60 minutes
this morning.
That's how I know.
Are you really living your life?
Let's gauge it.
If you wake up and you do what
86% of smartphone owners do,
they grab their phone.
It's right next to the bed.
They grab their phone.
They look at it.
And they go into
the social media.
They go into their email.
They go in their text,
their voice message,
or whatever else they're looking
at on their phone, their games.
And they're starting
their day in reaction.
That's how we know.
If you are living a conforming
life, it means you're waking up
and you are a consumer.
That's how you know.
You're waking up.
Your mind is not
directing the day.
You're not planning.
You're not asking what you want.
You're going in.
I always say people who
wake up and they check
their inbox is a great example.
The inbox is nothing but a
convenient organizing system
of other people's agendas.
So you wake up, you check in.
It's all these people
asking for something.
And now it's the world directing
your attention and your day.
That's why I tell people,
no, don't do that.
We did this study in High
Performance Academy where we
said you cannot check your
email or any social media
for the first 60
minutes of your day.
We increased productivity and
people's self-reported activity
over the course of
seven days by 30%.
And it held for 90 days.
Imagine if you got 30%
more productivity each day.
Well, the way you do it?
Stop conforming to what the
world is throwing at you.
Don't wake up and go
into reaction mode.
Wake up and say, what do I
want this day to be about?
Wake up and set some good
intentions for yourself.
Wake up and move your body
to open up some health,
open up some breath,
open up some endorphins.
Sit down with a piece
of paper and say, OK,
what are my main projects today?
Who do I need to reach out
to and ask questions of?
Or who am I waiting
on a decision
to I need to reach out to?
What are my main
priorities today?
Do that work first.
It's like Stephen
Covey taught us--
be proactive.
So it's like, first,
plan your day.
Ask what you want of it
before you go and say,
what does everybody else need?
Because the way to
know conformity,
it's not like we talk about
in personal development
or you read it, you watch it
in a certain movie where people
are talking about conformity is
like this mass culture thing.
Conformity happens every day.
Are you just consuming a bunch
of other people's voices?
Or are you contributing
and sharing your own?
Are you reacting
to all the noise?
Or are you finding some
stillness and silence
within each day?
It's very easy to tell.
Conformity is the little
things that we do.
It's that little time that
we want to create something
and, well, we lost
three hours on YouTube.
It's the tells that
happen all day long.
How did you wake up?
What did you really plan today?
How many of your goals--
did you knock off
three significant goals today?
Oh, you didn't?
You're conforming.
You don't like to hear that.
No, no, no, I just--
I have obligations
and responsibilities.
I'm like, no, your obligation
and your responsibility
is to live your mission
and your purpose,
that you were given this
unique soul, this unique gift,
this unique container that is
unique out of 7 billion people,
and you're being asked.
People will say,
what's my purpose?
I say, well, let's take a look.
What's your purpose?
What do we know to be true?
Well, we know for sure
that you're unique.
Out of 7 billion people, we
cannot line up a genetic exact
match.
We just know that by science.
We know that by spirit, as
well, that you're unique.
So part of your purpose,
live that uniqueness.
Don't conform.
Be you.
Share with the world
what you really
think, what you really
feel, what you really want.
Contribute things that
pull at your heart
because maybe that's God inside.
Maybe that's a
part of you that's
like there's some kind of
thing that's being called
and you're supposed to listen
because only you got that gift.
And you got that message.
You're supposed to do that.
I also say, what
else do we know?
7 billion people, we're
all interconnected.
And by and large, despite all
the negativity in the media,
7 billion people get along
extraordinarily well.
And we're all compelled
to belong and to love.
And so part of your purpose
is to create an environment
of belonging and love, to allow
other people to feel accepted
and cared for and honored.
Because if we didn't
do that for each other,
we'd blow up the planet.
And the third thing
that we all know, life?
Short.
It's precious.
You hear it.
You can't read any old
sage or any philosopher who
doesn't talk about mortality.
It's going to go.
And so the compelling drive is
to live it while we are here.
Live your unique
life, love others,
and live while you
are here, and we
know you'll be honoring that
purpose, those unique things
that we can tell and
measure by science
and that is here
and true for us.
I think fear has changed.
I'm not sure that
I agree that people
think I'm not good enough
or I don't deserve it.
I think we're in a time
where people actually
think they are good enough.
I mean, look at Instagram.
I mean, look at the pictures
they're taking of themselves.
They think they're great.
It's not do I think I'm great
that is stopping people.
What is stopping people is what
real psychological fear is.
Real psychological fear only
comes out of three things.
And I'm saying psychological
fear, not physiological.
What I mean is there is no
tiger chasing me right now.
So if there's no imminent
threat of physical harm,
then there's only three
psychological mechanisms
that create fear.
Number one is called loss pain.
Loss pain means if
I do that, then I'm
going to lose something
I like over here.
If I make a change,
I lose something.
If I quit smoking,
I lose that time
when I get to leave the
building and take those couple
deep breaths and just
get away from everybody.
If I go to change my diet,
then I lose the foods I love.
If I quit this job, then I lose
those co-workers I do like.
I lose my health insurance.
So people don't
change because they're
scared they're going
to lose something--
lose something tangible,
lose something intangible.
Sometimes they feel like
I'm going to lose respect.
People will make fun of me.
I'll lose status,
position, power, money.
So they don't proceed.
Even if they think they're OK--
they like themselves.
Self-esteem might
not be the issue.
They're just thinking
I might lose something
that's important to me.
And loss pain terrorizes people.
So they stay stuck.
Because you know what?
I know this.
I don't know that.
And I don't want to lose
the things I'm already
certain about in life.
Second thing that people fear
is called hardship pain--
hardship-- often
called process pain.
The process of
changing will bring
doubt, uncertainty, discomfort.
It will bring
hardship to me where
I'm going to stretch and
learn and retool new things.
People don't quit
the job because I
go, oh, I'm going to
have to create a resume.
I'm going to have
to go interview.
I'm going to have to put
myself out there again.
People don't go dating because
they say the same things today.
People don't go and try to
change because they say,
oh, well, the process--
if I want to lose
weight, I'm going
to have to learn
to cook new things.
I'm going to have to change my
schedule to go to the gym now.
It's going to hurt.
I'm going to be
sore all the time.
I don't want to do that.
That's process pain.
And then the last one
is called outcome pain.
Outcome pain is I'm scared that
if I go through all of that, I
put myself out there, I
try, I endured the hardship,
the grass won't be
greener on the other side.
I tried all of this work.
I did all the things you told
me only to be disappointed.
They're terrified
of disappointment.
They're not terrified
of a tiger eating them.
It's not physiological.
It's psychological
warfare in their mind
going if I do that, it
might not turn out well.
And then what happens?
Well, then I lose something.
What happens when
I lose something?
Then it becomes hard.
And they get trapped in this
spinning loop of fear, of loss,
of hardship, and outcome
that they didn't want.
And the only way
to shift somebody
is to change how they're
thinking about those things.
What we're thinking about
when we're trapped in fear
is this statement--
"what if" followed
by a negative statement.
What if I lose respect?
What if people make fun of me?
What if I fail?
What if it's not as
good as I promised?
So it's always
"what if" followed
by a negative statement.
And you have to teach people,
well, first, pursue that.
Ask the question and
really consider it.
What happens if those things--
what's the worst case scenario?
But then we have to teach
him to flip it and say,
"well, what if" followed
by a positive statement.
What if you don't lose anything,
but you gain the things
you really want in your life?
What if the process doesn't
terrorize you and make
you awful?
What if you could
enjoy the process?
What if that process could
make you stronger and better
and capable?
What if instead
of, oh, it's going
to turn out terrible,
what if it turns out great
and I finally get what
I've always wanted?
And we have to teach,
them where to focus.
If the "what if" is followed
by negative statement,
their mind goes like this,
and it turns in their gut.
It's how you get
stomach acid, and you
feel like you're going
to be sick with doubt.
It's because you're
asking "what if" followed
by negative statements.
Most anxiety, if it's not
a physiological problem
or torment, it's really
coming from the mind--
"what if" followed by
a negative statement.
But if we start asking what
if this amazing thing could
happen?
Then we start to find hope.
We start to find willpower.
We start to find motivation.
We start to find a morning
that's brighter than yesterday.
And that's why people
need to get over the idea
that fear is keeping them down.
Your mind is keeping you down.
Fear is just usually poor
management of our mind.
Yeah, I think visualization
is a beginning.
You have to have that.
That's like step one.
It's like, what do you want?
Can you see it?
And I think visualization
has to be a full body
emotional experience.
I mean, people say, Brendon,
how do I visualize well?
I say, are you sweating?
They go, what do you mean?
I say, when you sit and you
think about that dream, I mean,
do you start sweating
and getting exciting?
There's a little bit of anxiety
and that thrust of like, wow,
what would that take?
And what would that feel like?
Can you actually feel
yourself in that moment?
Does it cause chills?
I mean, if there's no
physiological sensation,
you're not visualization.
You're dreaming.
You're not using the full
weaponry of your mind
until your visualizations are
in full and bring feeling.
That's when you know
you're visualizing right.
So first, it's like
weaponizing the whole body.
You should feel it and sense it.
Be there.
Because the greats?
That's what they do.
They can feel it.
They feel what it's like
to finish that race, touch
the wall in swimming.
They feel what it's like
to give that smash serve.
They actually-- it's not just
visualization, it's feeling.
They can feel it and sense it.
They're fully immersed.
I mean, it's like it's
like a virtual reality.
They've put themselves there.
They see 360.
And it's not a short thing.
Most visualizations,
they're too short.
They think about
for like a minute.
La, la, la, la, la,
and they go to bed.
It's like, no, no, you've got to
sit there and dream this stuff
up.
Look around.
Be in virtual reality
of your dreams.
Sense it.
Feel it.
Feel that full emotion.
That's like step one.
What most people miss
in visualization,
though, is step two.
And that's imagining
the points that
really matter when
you're about to quit,
that moment when
things go wrong.
It's the now the famous
story of Michael Phelps
in which, when he was younger,
his goggles had broken.
And his coach made him
swim with it anyway.
He had to learn how to do that.
And he learned to think about
all these different things that
could go wrong.
Later on, in one
of the Olympics,
when his goggles had
started flooding with water,
he knew how to do it because
he'd thought through it.
And he counted his
strokes to the wall.
And he won the race
and won the gold.
And so you have these moments
where you have to imagine,
if you're running a marathon,
imagine being in that marathon.
You're doing great.
But you also have to imagine
mile 18 when it sucks.
Your shins are screaming.
Your back is starting to ache.
You feel pains of
all these places
because that's going to be real.
And you have to say,
what decision am I
going to make when
the crap hits the fan?
What decision am I going to
make when I want to quit?
Visualization isn't
just positive thinking.
It's not just enduring
positive thinking.
It's also saying
what might go wrong?
And how would my
highest self meet it?
You have to see the--
what happens if
you get up on stage
and you do forget your words?
What happens next?
You have to see
what happens next.
If you stop there, then
you're fear mongering,
and you'll shut down your dream.
But if you see it,
and then see yourself
work through the
difficulty, that's
advanced stage of
visualizations.
Then, if you have
those two components--
visualizing it with feeling,
emotion, and physiology,
really feeling it; watching
where things are going to go
wrong and how you're going
to adjust and be your highest
self--
and then from there,
it's teaching yourself
to say things to yourself.
Visualization should also
incorporate language.
You should lay
there with your eyes
closed and say, OK, when that
happens, remind yourself.
Go for it, Brendon.
Keep going.
You have to talk to yourself.
If there's no self talk
with your visualization,
you're still in kindergarten
in personal development.
Well, it came into my work in
the beginning, which is funny.
So I've been doing
this work for 20 years
in my own personal
life, in the last 10
years as a professional.
That means when I quit
my job, and I finally
got paid to do this stuff.
So for 10 years, it's
been about the journey
within for 10 years.
It's my famous statement.
Only two things
change your life.
Either something new
comes into your life,
or something new
comes from within.
I think what ends
up happening is--
for me, in my own personal
career-- was YouTube.
Outside of my seminars,
where a lot of people
couldn't attend because
of the price points--
suddenly YouTube comes along.
And now it's like, oh, well,
Brendon's taught a million
people to meditate on YouTube.
You go and look at my YouTube
video, a million people plus--
I don't know; maybe
it's two by now--
have watched that because I
think the zeitgeist changed.
I think meditation, mindfulness,
the concepts of presence,
that power of now--
all of that has become
more important and more
conversational right now
because people are so
inundated with
chaos, distraction,
external obligation,
consumerism, and negativity.
So they're struggling.
They're struggling.
And so they're looking
for answers now.
And they're finding stuff.
I mean, look, they're finding
stuff from Alan Watts now.
They're finding stuff
from Buddha now.
They're finding stuff from
Confucius and the Tao now.
They're going back now
because they know they're not
dealing with it now.
I mean, you have this
whole swell of people
now look into Marcus Aurelius
meditations, the stuff
that we talked about
20, 30 years ago.
But now it's caught on
to the popular culture
because the popular
culture is struggling.
People are overwhelmed, and they
don't know how to process it.
They are frustrated.
They don't know
how to process it.
They have already
tried everything else
that we were taught in the
'80s and the '90s, which
is basically consumerism, which
was lean on other things, which
was attain power, money, wealth,
status, and you'll feel good.
But you have an
entire economy now
that's chugged along pretty
well for decade after decade
after decade.
You've got a lot of comfort,
especially in the United States
and the Western worlds now.
We haven't solved
all the problems.
There's a lot of still people
living in just abject poverty.
But as more and more of the
world which is middle class,
then they've fought to get
there, then they look around
and go, is this it?
I still don't feel good.
I still feel like I
did when I was broke.
I still feel like I did
when I was struggling.
And people are having trouble
connecting with themselves.
They're not getting fulfillment
from the external world.
So they're saying,
where else can I look?
And the only answer is within.
So meditation has become that.
And for me, it's always
been a big part of it.
I started the release meditation
now seven, eight years ago.
I just close my eyes,
and I repeat the mantra,
the word "release."
I just close my eyes
and say release,
release, release, release.
I just repeat that
over and over.
When a thought comes in my
head, my mantra says release it.
Let it go.
When tension is in
my body, my mantra
says release that tension.
And I just do that 20
minutes, usually twice a day,
and that's what worked for me.
Everyone has to find
their own practice.
What we know
without any doubt is
that all of the science in
both mindfulness and meditation
is proving over
and over again, we
can decrease our stress
by will, by going
into a meditative state.
We can improve our
overall health by will,
by going into a
meditative state.
We can improve our daily
productivity, our creativity,
our resilience,
our relationships.
Every facet of our life we
can improve by meditation.
But meditation
doesn't just happen.
You have to take the time
and go in that place.
I do it when I'm in a taxi cab.
Instead of talking with the
cab driver, I'm like, well,
you know, you can talk
with the next five people.
Don't need to talk to me.
Close my eyes.
Every time I'm in a
car, close my eyes.
I meditate.
I also have transition
meditations,
which I think is the most
important thing to today
because people are trying
to do so many things.
Transition meditation
means, OK, let's say
I have two big activities.
Gotta check my inbox, and then
I have to create a presentation.
Well, I don't just do my
email and then jump in
and start creating that.
Instead, as soon as I get
done with the email, I get up.
I'll go walk around.
I'll get some water.
I'll come back down.
I'll sit.
And I'll just do a quick
two-, three-minute meditation.
Then I'll start
the presentation.
It's like I tell people, hey,
if you're a dad or you're a mom,
and you're coming
home from work,
and your spouse or the
kids are in the house,
don't take that long commute
where you're frustrated.
You're giving the bird to
everybody who cuts you off.
And then you go in the house
with that energy of the day.
Pull up to your house.
Turn the engine off.
Close your eyes, and let
yourself turn off for a minute.
Take a five-, 10-,
15-minute meditation.
Then get up.
Then go into the house.
That transition from the
commute to going into the house
gives you time to reset,
to have some intention,
and to go in the
house as a better
mom, better dad, a better
caregiver, a better lover.
Because if we just keep going
from one thing to another thing
to another thing to another
thing, to another thing,
not only does that lead to
burnout, it makes us miss life.
It makes us lack
the ability to bring
good energy into a moment.
And so I tell people, find your
moments in between everything.
There is nothing-- if
I've a full day of calls,
and then I've gotta
go meet my wife,
I'm going to meditate
between those two.
I have to.
Otherwise, she's
going to get Brendon
who just did the calls guy.
I don't want her
to have that guy.
I want her to have her husband.
And the only way I
can show up for her
is the transition meditation.
I think one of the biggest
problems in measuring
the next level for people is
that we've been all taught
that it's about personality,
that your personality will
carry you to the next level.
So take Myers Briggs,
take Strengths Finder,
take Birkman, take all
the different assessments
to measure what you are
like and who you are.
And we keep thinking that what
we are like and who we are,
these innate strengths, these
lucky blessings of preference
and personality matter when
it comes to performance
at the next level.
And what we know from all the
science now is it doesn't.
We cannot correlate your
personality to long-term
performance.
We just can't.
So I started asking,
well, how can we
start to assess
what's going to make
somebody go to the next level?
How do we measure
performance, not personality?
So we created the High
Performance Indicator--
lots of research,
lots of validation
for this program, now
the world's largest high
performance study.
And it basically found
that there's six things.
If you get these six
things all in alignment,
and these six
things are enduring
in your day in your
life, you'll basically
succeed over the long term.
And those six things are this.
One-- and this is the one I
didn't know was so important
to high performance--
necessity.
If you don't feel it's
necessary to succeed
because of two things--
one, an internal standard;
and, two, an external demand--
you won't succeed
over the long term.
You might have
what psychologists
call initial success.
You get the good grade.
You graduate the first
semester with high honors.
But you won't make it
three more semesters
or throughout grad
school or your PhD
and maintain that success
arc unless something inside
says that this must happen.
And, of course, we know
that because Les Brown
taught us to succeed
you got to be hungry.
Hunger, desire,
that's necessity.
That's what it really is.
Psychologically, it
says I must win this.
I must do well.
I must begin.
I must be a better husband.
I must be a better dad.
Something makes it necessary
for us to get better.
And without that
necessary to get better,
we won't sustain the growth.
The second thing is clarity.
You gotta know what it
is specifically you want
and what's the
path to get there.
And that bothers a lot
of people because they
might know what they want, but
they haven't done the research
to find out the path.
They don't know what they should
do, so they don't do anything.
And so this has to be a
very deliberate thing.
When you have a
dream or necessity
says you better succeed here
because new competition came in
or because some incident
made you change,
you better figure
out a path fast.
And that's the number one
thing people wait too long on,
to figure out the path.
They know what they
want, but they wait.
They keep hoping someone's
going to give them the answer.
No, I say.
You gotta do
research right away.
Find clarity about
how to get there,
and you'll start to improve.
The third thing, which
psychologically hasn't been
measured, which still bothers
me and boggles my mind--
it's why we started the study--
energy.
You take all those
personality tests.
They barely ever
talk about health.
You take all these supposed
success indicators,
and they don't ask
the simple question,
do you have the mental stamina
and the physical energy
to do that over the long term?
And today, most people don't.
They don't have the energy.
They're tired.
They're wiped out.
They're distracted.
They're overburdened.
They're not meditating.
They're not eating right.
They're not sleeping well.
They're not nutrition-focused.
And so they're wiped out.
And so push?
Challenge?
No, man, I'm tired.
Turn on Netflix.
And so their energy isn't at
the level of their ambitions,
so they never achieve
their ultimate goals.
Then you have productivity,
which is huge.
And this was a tough one.
This productivity, is it
causation or correlation
when it comes to
high performance?
Productivity is essential.
But here's what we learned
about high performers.
It's not that they just get more
done because that could just
be pushing paper all day.
It could just be you're
doing stuff all day.
That doesn't matter.
High performers
have a higher level
of what's called
productive output.
They are putting things out
that are necessary for success
in their career.
If you're a painter,
that means you're more
prolific than the next guy.
Monet, Picasso,
Beethoven, Mozart--
why do these people stand out?
They were way more
prolific, way more prolific,
than those who were
there at that time.
Sometimes their work
wasn't even original yet.
They were still working it.
But through prolific
productivity,
they found mastery.
You have to stay
at, and you have
to do the work, that's
required in your field
to become excellent
over a period of time.
Otherwise you won't
hit high performance.
It's everything.
The next one was influence.
High performers really deeply
care about their relationships.
And because they care, they
have great degrees of empathy.
Because they put
a lot of intention
into how they come
across, what they convey,
they're more influential.
I mean, it's hard to
succeed over the long term
without influence.
There's a popular book
going around right now--
phenomenal book--
by Angela Duckworth.
It's called "Grit."
And she found that
gritty people--
people who succeeded-- she
studied initial success.
People who have initial
objective success,
they have a lot of passion
and a lot of perseverance.
And that was a big finding
because she proved it
in the science with
some assessments.
The challenge, as anyone
in the real world knows,
those things aren't enough.
How many passionate,
persevering people
do you know who never
succeeded because they
sucked at relationships?
They weren't good
with the people skill.
That's the third P. She
got passion, perseverance.
She forgot people
skills because no one
succeeds over the long
term without developing
people's skills.
Even Mark Zuckerberg is
good with people now.
He sucked at it before.
Now he's amazing.
You have to develop
that skill and capacity.
And then the last
one is courage.
High performers have
a lot of courage.
To reach the next
level takes courage.
You've got to be willing
to put yourself out there.
You have to try new things.
And you don't do
it once on a Sunday
when you finally got motivated.
It's every day.
Courage is telling the
world, here's what I think,
what I feel, what I
need, what I desire.
It's going after things
that you don't even
have any right to go after.
It's moonshot goals.
And sometimes moonshot
goals for somebody
means leaving their house
today, going into the boardroom
and saying, guys, we're
doing the wrong thing.
It means going into the company
and saying, you know what?
We need to create something new.
It means going to your spouse
and saying, it's not working.
That level of courage
is demonstrated
by high performers.
That's why they succeed
over the long term,
because they speak up for
themselves over the long term.
There is a lot of popularity
around the concept
of vulnerability right now.
Real vulnerability is voice.
It's about sharing
who you really are
and what you really
desire of life.
And if you're not
doing that, it's
impossible to reach the next
level because you'll just
stay there in your own silence.
And in personal development,
there's two kinds of silence.
One, that silence within
that's meditative,
that's the good kind.
But there's also
another kind of silence.
That's silencing our thoughts,
our dreams, our feelings.
And that kind of silence?
There's suffering.
And the only way
through is voice,
sharing what we really
want, standing up
for who we really are even
when they make fun of us.
That's the courage
that's needed today.
10 years.
So the qualitative
part of it was
getting to work with a lot
of extreme high performers,
just amazing, amazing people--
Oprah, Arianna Huffington,
just the top caliber in a lot
of the different
worlds, and seeing them.
And I've coached for 10 years.
And it doesn't take that much.
I mean, you coach for
three years, you're good.
You coach for 10, you've
reached another level
understanding people.
And so I just, well,
what do I think?
Originally, I had 62 measures,
and then kind of categorized
those measures, brought it
down to what I thought were 12,
started the assessments,
started the research.
And my research team
is real-deal academics
from University of
Pennsylvania, the number one
positive psychology
school in the world.
And these guys are smart.
They get the data.
And we crunch it down
to these six categories.
And those six I talked
about, they make everything--
necessity, clarity, energy,
productivity, influence,
courage.
So when you take this
assessment, you'll get scores.
You get a one to five score
on each of those six areas.
And then you can say, oh,
crap, here's where I suck.
Because a lot of people--
we just did this for very,
very large group people--
and their particular one,
they were low on necessity.
They just didn't have that sense
that they needed to do this.
So what was interesting is
they were low on necessity.
Guess what their
next lowest one was?
Productivity, because
it's not necessary to do.
Netflix is on.
If it's not necessary
to do, why do it?
So their productivity
score, it's always--
if the necessity
is lowest, I can
predict with accurate persuasion
within plus or minus three
points, productivity is
going to be the next lowest
one because you don't
have to-- why do it?
Internal and external,
meaning that's
the secret of why we call
it necessity versus desire
because demand is there.
A lot of people like myself--
I went bankrupt
early in my career.
And it was awful.
I knew a lot of
what to do to repair
and what to do, especially
for me as a writer
and as a trainer.
I gotta write some books
and do some seminars.
But I couldn't motivate myself.
So I would be sitting
there pretending to write.
I'd go to the cafe and look
at all the people writing
and be like, try
to pretend to be
one of those pretentious guys.
Well, I'm writing, too.
But nothing was-- I ordered
all the green teas and all
the coffees.
Nothing would happen.
Well, I said, well, I
can't find creativity.
So I'd go walk around the
block and fool myself.
Well, I must need to walk.
I must need something
for creative inspiration.
No, I need to sit
there and write.
I didn't do it.
And then one night I am writing,
starting to get into it--
and I don't know if you've
heard this story before,
but I was then living
with my girlfriend.
And we were broke.
And actually she was
doing better than I was,
but I'd gone bankrupt.
So I had to move out
of my apartment, moved
in with my then girlfriend.
And I'm writing on
my mom's foldout,
three-legged table that used
to use for sewing room table.
And I'm writing.
But I've been
writing every night.
Nothing's really working.
And the apartment
was so small, I
had all my bills,
and my vision boards,
and my journals and my
research all over the bed.
The bed was like
the extended desk.
It had this little pull-out
table right next to it.
And my lady walked in one night.
And I kind of-- she was just
trying not to disturb me.
And I'm typing along.
And she walks around the bed.
And she gets under
the covers, trying not
to disturb the paper and me.
And I'm typing along
and a little bit later
and I look over.
And there is my woman sleeping
under the weight of my bills.
And it was like, uh, I
didn't want that for her.
And here I'm trying
to be a writer,
but I'm not getting stuff done.
And I'm seeing my
woman literally sleep
under my invoices, my
bills, my bankruptcy papers.
And I was like, no, that's
not the life I want to live.
Had I not had that moment
would I have motivated
myself to start my career?
I'd like to think
so, but I hadn't yet.
And so she gave me
the gift of necessity.
An external demand
sometimes because we'll
do more things for our
children, for our spouses,
for our mission, for
a cause, for God,
than we'll do for ourselves.
But a lot of people lose that
connection with something
beyond ourselves.
What is it that's going to
make you get up and fight?
She gave me something
to fight for.
Each day, I was
losing the battles.
I wanted to win the war for us.
And so, luckily, she stayed
with me through those times
and became my wife.
So you have to have
something external
from you giving you
cause to chase your dream
because your dream isn't enough.
People like to think that today.
You read that in a lot
of self-help books.
It's just not about
your dream because we
don't live in a universe
where we're alone.
There's other people that
we have to fight for.
And some people don't
like that metaphor.
They say, well, Brendon,
something to fight for?
Very masculine energy.
I say, well, then find
something to love for.
But whatever it
is, if you're not
connected to that each
day, what's happening
is at some point you're
moving, you're going,
but you don't know it.
Ego is starting to creep in.
And what's happening is
really, yeah, you're achieving.
You're moving.
But it's really
ego propelling you.
And you don't even know it.
That's what happens
with successful people.
The ego sneaks up on them.
They didn't start
out bad people.
They don't start power hungry.
They didn't start
jealous or angry.
It crept up on him
because for so long
they were chasing their
dream for themselves alone.
And that dream-- every
day they're fighting.
Even if they're
really hard-working,
and high-performing
people, they're going.
But what happened
is they got detached
from others, their spouse,
their kids, the bigger cause
because they kept reminding
themselves of their dream.
They kept remind themselves
to be awesome for themselves.
And they forgot
that in the end, all
we have is our relationships.
All we have is how we
were with other people.
Because when you're on your
deathbed, you're looking around
and you're asking who's around?
Who's here?
Who do I care for?
And so it's so
necessary every day
to have some part of
your life that says,
who can I connect with today?
What's the broader
mission beyond me?
Your dream is important,
but it's not everything.
Contribution,
purpose, your love--
that's more important
than your dream.
You know what?
It's OK sometimes.
Sometimes you got to
sacrifice your dream
because you had a 3-year-old.
And you got a year there.
It's like, hey,
man, I can't even
walk because I haven't
slept this year.
There's times when
family trumps our dreams.
And that's OK.
There's times-- it doesn't
mean that we stop them forever.
It just means we say,
hey, priority right now.
I think it's really
unfortunate a lot of people
don't feel fulfilled today
because you look at their life
and they're pretty successful.
And fulfillment,
it's something that
doesn't stick unless we
have a deliberate practice
to make it stick.
Let me give you an example.
Every Sunday, I sit down.
And I have a page in my
journal, and I write down
what went well this
week, this last week.
What am I proud of?
What did I try to give?
What did I overcome?
Who did I see?
What was beautiful?
And I just write about
this every single Sunday
to reflect on the week.
And then one
important thing I do,
which is really difficult
for a lot of people to do,
is to integrate success.
A lot of people are
unfulfilled because they never
have an act of integration.
You have to, every
single week, say
what did I do today that brought
some passion, that brought
some meaning, that
was good, that gave,
and allow yourself to feel
it, to take it in and say,
OK, I am on my path.
I did good this week.
It's literally taking
time from the day
and allowing yourself
to say, I did that.
If you don't integrate your
successes into your identity,
you'll never feel
fulfilled ever.
You'll just go on
to the next thing.
It's the next treadmill.
It's the next accomplishment.
It's keeping up the Joneses.
It's always trying to get the
next new height without ever
feeling the previous height.
And that's terrible.
So you have to have
a practice that
says I need to allow
myself to feel the win.
I did good this week.
OK, this is making a difference.
A lot of people in my
world, they read a comment
from someone that says,
thank you for this.
It really changed my life.
It made a big difference.
They'll write a beautiful
email or a beautiful Facebook
comment--
three, four, five sentences
or four or five paragraphs,
or seven, eight pages
of this person saying,
you changed my life.
And they read it,
and they go on.
When I read it, I read it once.
I close my eyes.
I think about that person.
I give gratitude
that this happened.
I read it again.
I try to put myself in
that person's shoes.
I read again, give
thanks that happened.
It's the same thing.
You get a cue that
you're doing good.
You get a sense that
something's fulfilling.
But you bypass it too fast.
It's like when people here, they
drive across the Golden Gate
Bridge.
They stop.
They take the picture.
They leave.
They didn't take it in.
People would be more
fulfilled if they took it in.
They got the high
five from the boss.
Walk out of the office.
Close your eyes and
go, you did it, man.
All right.
We've come a long way.
Cool.
And then keep going.
Without that moment
of integration,
we'll never feel fulfilled.
To purpose, I think that's a
tricky one because people think
that they're going
to walk out the door
and the piano of purpose
is going to fall on them.
And it's like, thank
you, God, for handing
me this one single
one thing I was
supposed to do with my life.
It's about time it came.
I'm 40.
It's like, that
doesn't really happen.
Purpose emerges from
small acts of kindness.
That's how you get it.
You're not going to
know it's going to be.
I don't think that
a lot of people
have that divine moment where
everything comes crystal clear.
Maybe sometimes it does.
But it actually came after
about 1,000 whispers.
And they didn't hear it.
And then one day they got it.
And so I think what you have
to do, don't wait for purpose.
Don't hope it hits you.
Go to a soup kitchen
next Sunday, serve.
Go join that volunteer group
in town and just do something.
Go volunteer at the kids camp.
Go volunteer at the school.
Go help Junior Achievement,
Kiwanis, YMCA, Big Brothers,
Big Sisters.
There's a million
organizations you
can join that you can just go
do something actively each week
and just try something.
You're never going to
have that sense of purpose
being important until
you volunteered.
It's really important
for people to think.
They think they're going
to find their purpose
in their business.
And I go, uh, your business can
become part of your purpose.
But real purpose
is going to come
when you did it
for no other reason
than the act of
kindness and generosity.
That's when you're
going to really touch
the hem of real purposes.
You can have passion.
You can have a business mission.
But real purpose?
Until you have lots
of little moments,
these small acts of you giving,
volunteering, being kind, being
generous--
those things are all
just opening the door
to a bigger divine calling.
But unless you open
those doors, everything's
going to fall flat.
So don't wait for the big thing.
Go do the small things.
Do them over and
over and over again.
And the best way I tell
people, volunteerism.
You'll never meet better
quality people than volunteers.
They're nice.
They're positive.
They're giving.
They're not stressed because
they're taking time out
of their day to do something
that they've consciously
chosen to do, to give.
You want to be
influence in your life?
Volunteer.
Who are the volunteers?
Influencers.
Usually volunteering
at any given place,
it's the most respected,
the most wealthy people
in the community because
they've carved out that time.
They achieved their
dream, and they
said, now how do I give back?
They're the ones volunteering.
So I say, hey, if
you've got nothing,
go volunteer because you're
going to get a lot of wealthy,
giving, smart people
who can mentor you.
And most importantly,
you get to watch them.
If they never give you
anything, but you just
saw people being
generous, there's
inspiration for the day.
I mean, motivation is
different than inspiration
and enthusiasm, very different.
Like inspiration, you
see something on YouTube,
you're like, I'm inspired.
Or you want to start
your day and you're
energized to do
something, motivation
is, do you do it day after
day after day after day?
Some people say
motivation is fleeting.
It's not, not real motivation.
What they're really
talking about
is inspiration and enthusiasm.
They're not talking
about motivation.
Motivation is the reason
for what you're doing.
It's the drive.
It's the why.
And what people don't
understand is it's not something
that you have.
My biggest breakthrough in my
life was to get over the lie
that I have to have
something for it to be true.
You don't have happiness.
You don't have energy.
You don't have sadness.
And you don't have motivation.
My greatest metaphor of my
life is that the power plant
doesn't have energy.
It generates energy.
I don't have motivation.
I generate it.
I have to generate it.
I don't have happiness.
I must generate that.
It's not something
you have, it's
something that you
generate by your thoughts,
by the command of your own
mastery of your emotions
and your attention.
And so what I've
learned about motivation
is motivation really comes
from just a few simple things.
The spark of motivation, the
thing that most people are
familiar with
motivation is really
what is called ambition
and expectancy.
These two things firing off
together give me the spark.
So ambition is
what I really want.
It's something more.
It's like, I want something
more of something right now.
And so that gives
me the enthusiasm.
That gives me some energy.
And expectancy is I
believe that I could have
that, which is so important.
Most people don't
have real motivation
because they don't
believe they can have it.
So what they have is hope.
What they have is momentary
inspiration and enthusiasm.
That's not motivation.
Real motivation says I
believe in my ability
to figure things out.
There's my ambition, and
I believe I can get it.
That's the spark
of real motivation.
Then what sustains real
motivation is this idea
that we have to have effort
and attention on the thing
that we want.
A lot of people think, I'll
have motivation one day.
I said, no, no, here's
how you get motivation.
Get momentum.
With momentum comes
more motivation.
More motivation, more-- it's
like this beautiful loop
that happens over and
over and over again.
You gotta take action every
single day, three small steps
towards what you want.
That effort will seal in your
mind that this is important.
We know from neuroscience
that effort, the small wins,
drops more dopamine.
We start building neural
pathways that say,
we like this.
Let's keep doing this.
And our attention
must be brought back
to ownership of what is
important in our life.
You can't sustain motivation
in the midst of distraction.
You gotta get rid of stuff.
You gotta stop paying
attention to dumb stuff that
doesn't matter and say, what's
important of my day today?
Without a focus
of your attention,
motivation's out the window.
And then what amplifies
motivation over the long term?
Over the long term is
attitude and environment.
You gotta choose to have
a great attitude even
despite the difficulties
because you're
going to honor the struggle.
You're going to keep connected
to your purpose and the people
around you.
You're going to know that
you can figure things out.
And then you're going to
structure an environment
to win.
It's very important.
My environment is
structured to win.
You look at my calendar,
it's structured to win.
My mornings are
clear so I can focus
on my prioritization, my
art, the things that's
I'm supposed to get
done during the day
before I go respond to
anybody or take any calls
or do anything else.
We're doing this
interview later in the day
because I command the
beginning of my day
to make sure I'm
getting things done.
I'm setting up as much
as I can in my life
to ensure that I'm moving toward
the things that matter most
to me.
And that means getting
rid of a lot of things.
That means not hanging
out with negative people.
It means not being
sucked in so easily
into the drama of
politics or whatever
is in this current news cycle.
It's about saying, OK,
if I could structure
my environment so that I could
win, what would it look like?
I did that when I was bankrupt.
I said, well, I want
to write a book.
What would my ideal
environment look like?
I was broke.
Now today, I've taken
it up to the next level.
I have this big,
beautiful place on a cliff
where I write all my books.
It just gorgeous, this place
in the woods and the gorge.
I mean, it's a stunning
place in Oregon.
Everyone's like, wow,
this place is amazing.
It's 5,000 square
feet just to write it.
It's unbelievable.
Well, my first book was written
on a borrowed foldout desk.
And all I could do to control
that environment at that time?
I had a nice little
candle over there.
I had this crappy
little thing playing--
I think it was
Pandora at the time.
It wasn't ideal, but
I made sure that when
I walked in there, I said,
this is my ship right now.
I'm the commander of this.
I'm going to take charge
of this environment.
I got around people
who were positive.
I set up my day that if I
was going to read something,
it's wasn't going to
be trashy magazines.
It was going to be education.
It was going to be research.
It was going to
be something that
would give me something,
not take away from me.
And so I started structuring
and deliberately controlling
all these things.
So every day,
what's my ambition?
What do I believe I
can make happen today?
That's ambition expectancy.
Every single day, what
are my main things
I'm going to move towards?
What's the effort
I'm going to give?
And how am I going to
control my attention today
when it's crazy?
What's my attitude
going to be about today?
And how can I structure
this environment even better
to support my growth
and my giving?
And by doing those
things I have motivation.